---
layout: essay
type: essay
published: true
title: E1: UI Basics Technical Essay
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-09-08
labels:
  - ITM 352
  - HTML
  - css
---

## BrowserHistory1
  For this WOD, we had to create a static page containing prewritten text that we just had to slightly format. I took 15 minutes in my first attempt and a little less than 9 minutes in my second attempt. What slowed me down in my first attempt was making the table of contents because I couldn’t remember how to make a relative link using the id. 
  
  In VS Code, I discovered that VS Code had the wrap text functionality (View → Word Wrap). 

## BrowserHistory2
  For this WOD, we had to style the page (from WOD1) using css. I took 17 minutes in my first attempt and a little less than 9 minutes in my second attempt. The hardest part of the WOD for me was remembering how to import the necessary fonts and how to make the logos inline.
  
  One thing I wish I had realized earlier was that some of the styling in the .css file would take quite some time to update on the browser. Often when changes I made had no effect, I thought I had done something wrong which can be detrimental (time- and sanity-wise) because I’d be trying to find a nonexistent error. When I did some searching, I discovered that pressing `cmd` + `shift` + `enter` will force the browser to completely refresh the page and to uncache certain things like the .css file. This is extremely helpful because I was able to immediately see my changes. For this WOD I also utilized the Chrome Developer Tools (specifically looking at the source files used by the browser) to discover the issue that my non-updated .css files were still being rendered. 
It was quite satisfying to complete this WOD because it demonstrated how even a little styling can make a web page look nicer. 

## BrowserHistory3
  For this WOD, we had to further style the static page and change some of the layout. I took 12 minutes in my first attempt and a little less than 7 minutes in my second attempt. The hardest part of the WOD for me was figuring out how to complete the tasks using what I already knew. 
  
  After my first (slow) attempt, I watched the video and realized that I did some of the tasks in a different way. For one, I put the sections about each browser into a table instead. Then, I styled the columns so that the margins would look nicer. For the navbar, I also did it differently because I didn’t use the list tag at all and styled the anchors directly. If the way I did this WOD is bad practice, I’m eager to continue learning to discover if there is a better way!

  For all 3 WODS, doing it a second time helped me reinforce what I figured out in my first attempt. My advice would be to try the WOD first and when you get stuck, try to use any resource but the answer video (because rarely do you get “the answer” in real life) to practice your problem-solving skills. 
