---
layout: essay
type: essay
published: true
title: E4 Progress in Programming Report
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-11-21
labels:
  - ITM 352
  - HTML
  - css
  - Javascript
  - Servers
---

### My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:
I now have a better understanding of html, css, and Javascript. During this past summer I took a class and got a quick overview of these three, but didn’t get to spend much time to fully understand what I was doing due to the time constraints. Now, I have a much better understanding of the three and can see the connections between the three much more clearly. I especially enjoyed learning how to make pages more interactive and understanding what a DOM is and how events work. While not directly related to the skill of programming, I found that learning how servers work helped me better understand how websites work and helped me design better websites. 

### I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:
I need to practice using the debugging tools (VSCode and Chrome Developer tools) that we learned about in class because I can really see how that will cut the time I take to debug. While working on Assignment 1 I tried to use VSCode’s breakpoints, but couldn’t get it to work how I wanted to. I also need to spend more time learning how to use css to style pages more. Whenever I design a page, I always feel limited by my lack of css knowledge and struggle to implement the styling ideas I have to a website. 

### I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast:
I definitely learned a lot from doing WODs because reading and following along in class about a concept is still a stretch away from actually applying the concept. Now that I’ve done the WODs, I’ve learned how to utilize HTML events with Javascript, make simple forms, and much more. After working on Assignment 1, I think I can complete the WODs without copying the screencast solutions. Before, I would usually only watch the screencast and copy parts of the code that I wasn’t too sure about when I didn’t know what the optimal implementation was. When working on Assignment 1, I made sure to understand what I was doing which helped with solidifying all the knowledge I’ve gained in this class. So as a result, it’ll be easier to do the WODs without copying the screencasts.  

### The labs have helped me to learn and I am able to complete them with confidence.
All of the labs did help me learn, but I feel like I could have learned more if we had slowed down for the last few labs (12-14).  There was especially a lot of material in lab 13 that I found myself struggling with when I had to apply it to Assignment 1. Additionally, I feel like we should have gone over the extra credit questions for lab 13 because of how critical they are to helping us understand server-side versus client-side processing. Besides lab 13, I think I can complete the other labs pretty confidently because I’m usually able to do at least three-fourths of the lab before we go over it in class. 

### I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2:
I definitely learned a lot from completing Assignment 1 and I’m ready to tackle Assignment 2. It was gratifying to apply all the knowledge we’ve gained over the summer to this assignment. However, while I think I can confidently build small applications like Assignment 1, I’m not confident that I’m using the best practices when building them. For example, when we had to do server-side processing of errors and then display the errors back on the client, I was hesitant to just use the query string because I wasn’t sure if it was the best practice to do. I think we should spend more time going over best practices in class in order to help people feel assured when programming. 

### I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:
I think labs should be divided into smaller chunks so that people can follow along more easily. Specifically, there shouldn’t be multiple questions in one line because it makes it difficult to figure out which question the professor is going over and to figure out where you are in the lab. I often had a difficult time listening to the lecture while coding along in class while trying to find (then answer) the questions and many times I had to quickly leave comments in the document to remind myself to complete a question. Another improvement would be to get the correct answers to labs (perhaps after they’re due) so that we can make sure we got a full understanding.

### What helps me the most in class are (WODs, Labs, class website, screencasts, readings, quizzes, one on one help, working with classmates, etc.):
For me, I think labs are the most helpful. As mentioned above, I sometimes go over the labs in advance and then leave comments on sections that I had trouble with so that I know to pay extra attention when the professor is going over that question. I think what also helps is that Professor Kazman makes a file for each section in the lab which makes it easier to refer back to his work while completing the lab. The screencasts and readings are good for a brief glimpse into the concept, but because of much there is, it can be hard to commit everything to memory. However, thankfully, the WODs, labs, and assignments go over the concepts again. 
